---
title: "Fake News Labels and Public Opinion in Nondemocracies: Evidence from Singapore"
collection: working papers
category: manuscripts
date: 2025-10-20
type: 'Su, Y.'
venue: Working Paper
---
*R&R* with *Comparative Political Studies*<br><br>**Abstract:** In democracies and nondemocracies alike, the share of content flagged as “fake” on social media is on the rise, yet we know little about how fake news labels shape public opinion. This study examines the use of fake news labels in nondemocratic contexts and argues that authoritarian regimes employ them to reduce alignment with and trust in opposition messages. Using a pre-registered survey experiment conducted in Singapore, I find that government-sponsored fake news labels lower agreement with evidence-oriented posts from opposition channels, especially among government supporters. Meanwhile, rebuttals produced by targeted opposition accounts are ineffective in counteracting this negative effect. In addition, fake news labels do not significantly alter perceptions of the content’s trustworthiness or the reliability of its sources. I conclude that the opinion effects of government-sponsored fake news labels vary depending on the attributes of targeted posts, as these labels have limited influence when applied to politically sensitive messages that already attract low support from the masses or when individuals may hesitate to reveal their true opinions. This research contributes to a deeper understanding of the strategies used by authoritarian regimes to crack down on online dissent and their consequences. It offers timely insights into how modern autocracies adapt to the digital age and informs debates on media freedom in research on democratic backsliding, where attacks on the press often serve as the first step in eroding democracy.
